Document:

"How does hollywood accounting make a successful movie like Forrest Gump to be categorize as net loss, is it not true that box office production office profit? Let's imagine that I'm making a film. nIt costs me 100million to make the film. And the film takes 300million at the box office. But of that 300million, the cinemas themselves keep 100million, so I get 200million. This sounds like 100million profit, right? nI'm going to pay the screenwriter 10 of the profit. So he stands to make 10million. Not bad. nBut as well as spending 100million making the film, I also had to distribute the film to the cinemas. And arrange for it to be advertised. And I had to hire studios in which to film it. nI decided to hire myself to distribute the film. I charged myself 40million for that. And I charged myself 40million for my expertise in arranging the advertising, too. Add to the the 30million I charged myself to hire my own studios, and you can see that the total cost of making the film was 210million. Even though over half those costs go to me. nSo why would I want to do that? Well, now there's no profit. And since the screenwriter's salary is a portion of the profit, I don't have to pay him anything at all! I've just saved myself 10million. Hollywood accounting Hollywood accounting also known as Hollywood bookkeeping refers to the opaque or creative accounting methods used by the film, video, and television industry to budget and record profits for film projects. Expenditures can be inflated to reduce or eliminate the reported profit of the project, thereby reducing the amount which the corporation must pay in taxes and royalties or other profit-sharing agreements, as these are based on the net profit. nHollywood accounting gets its name from its prevalence in the entertainment industry that is, in the movie studios of Hollywood at a time when most studios were located in Hollywood. filmgoers would mistakenly think that the film was about business. Box Office According to Fox records the film required 9,750,000 in rentals to break even and by 11 December 1970 had made 5,425,000 so made a loss to the studio. box-office receipts based on the surveys are, according to the Los Angeles Times, surprisingly accurate as most of the company's picks...are in the ballpark in 2009 correctly predicting the success of The Hangover and the failure of Land of the Lost. Hollywood executives are divided on CinemaScore's accuracy. One told Deadline Hollywood It's not always right, but it's a pretty good indicator. I rely on it while another said that competitor PostTrak was much better...more thorough and in-depth sophistication, box office results failed to follow suit, although the British author David Shipman, in his book The Great Movie Stars: The Golden Years, described it as being overall a neat moneymaker, but otherwise probably the least successful of Garland's MGM films. nAccording to MGM accounts, the film earned 1,874,000 in the US and Canada and 782,000 elsewhere, resulting in a loss to the studio of 2,290,000. The film ended up grossing 38.1 million, with 71.4 million internationally resting in a 109.5 million worldwide gross, making it an American box office bomb. Its failure became apparent early on, as Disney's Buena Vista Distribution arm reduced its fourth-quarter earnings by 47 million within a few days of the film's release. In 2014, the Los Angeles Times listed the film as one of the most expensive box office flops of all time. Critical response The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported that the film has an approval rating of 69 based on 147 reviews. The site's critical consensus states Though also met poor box office returns, it was reported that Disney would have to write-down about 70 million. The film ended its box office run earning 103,951,461 worldwide. that probably low. nThe Hollywood Reporter estimated the film's financial losses would be over 70 million. A representative of Sony found this loss estimate to be way off, saying: With multiple revenue streams. .. the bottom line, even before co-financing, is not even remotely close to that number. According to Variety, sources familiar with the film's financing estimate the total loss to be about 75 million, of which, due to co-financing with Village Roadshow, Sony would lose about 50 million. Sony insiders have projected, along with co-financing, a total loss of about 25 million. Bloomberg News estimated the film lost 58.6 made 4.2 million on Friday. It went on to debut to 13.3 million, finishing second at the box office. The week after its release, it was reported the film would likely lose the studio around 100 million. In March 2018, Deadline Hollywood calculated the film lost the studio 71.6 million, when factoring together all expenses and revenues. Critical response On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 14 based on 83 reviews, and an average rating of 3.57 10. The site's critical consensus reads, Lacking impressive visuals, well-written characters, or involving drama, Geostorm aims for epic a blockbuster upon its release, grossing over 32 million, making it the sixth highest-grossing film of 1971 and one of the most successful films in history, with an expense-to-profit ratio of 1:32; beyond that, it is estimated video rentals and purchases in the United States since the 1980s have produced an additional 20.5 million. On this point, Raucher said in May 2002 that his ten percent of the gross, in addition to royalties from book sales, has paid bills ever since. nAs well as being a commercial success, Summer of '42 also received rave critical reviews. The review aggregator website Rotten at the box office, setting a new record for an MGM film. According to the studio records, it made 5,810,000 in the US and Canada and 5,086,000 elsewhere, resulting in a profit of 2,762,000. It was MGM's biggest earner for 1952 and one of the top four money-makers of the year. It was also the fourth most popular film in England in 1952. Critical reception Pandro S. Berman, Freddie Young, and Miklós Rózsa were nominated for Academy Awards, for Best Picture, Best Cinematography, Color, and Best Music, Scoring, respectively. In addition, Richard Thorpe was nominated by the Directors Guild of could do well on DVD and other home entertainment platforms. The losses for MGM were heavier, since they financed 80 of the total production budget, including marketing expenses. As a result, Paramount's share of the loss was about 13 million. Sources at rival studios put the film's break even point at about 250 million globally. nThe Hollywood Reporter placed Ben-Hur among the biggest summer box office risks of 2016, while Forbes deemed it the summer's most predictable miss catastrophe In the United States and Canada, the film was projected to gross to about 15 million in its opening weekend, a disappointing figure office Though critically panned, the film is considered to be a financial success because it recouped its million production budget from theatrical and rental revenues, totaling over 18.6 million. nIn its opening weekend, the film grossed a total of 3,109,924 in the United States. The film has grossed a total of 7,061,128 in theaters in the United States. It also made 340,762 overseas, thus totaling 7,401,890 in theaters worldwide. nIt also made an additional 11,250,000 on DVD and home video rentals in 2006. Critical reception The film received mostly negative reviews, with Rotten Tomatoes reporting that out of 43 reviews, is too theatrical and every idea is spelled out for the audience. Box Office According to Fox records the film required 16,075,000 in rentals to break even and by 11 December 1970 had made 9,325,000 so made a loss to the studio. every film to have a tradable share whose value would end based on the four-week opening box office revenue. Speculators and hedgers could buy or sell contracts in effort to profit or hedge against loss based on a film's financial performance. nBefore its debut, movie executives expressed concern the existence of such an exchange would create yet another facet to take into account when assessing projects. development with video consolidation as well as DVD sales, which over the past two decades is the biggest earner in revenue. According to The Contemporary Hollywood Film Industry, Philip Drake states that box office takings currently account for less than a quarter of total revenues and have become increasingly front loaded earning the majority of receipts in the opening two weeks of exhibition, meaning that films need to make an almost instant impact in order to avoid being dropped from screens by exhibitors. Essentially, if the film does not succeed in the first few weeks of its inception, it will a further 8.7 million in box office gross in its 2006 reissue. The 2007, 2008 and 2009 reissues earned 14.5 million and 1.1 million, respectively, increasing the film's total box office gross to 75 million. Critical response The film initially received positive reviews from critics and it has since gone on to receive widespread critical acclaim, with critics and audiences praising the originality and creativity on the visual and storytelling elements, soundtrack, characters and innovating use of stop-motion animation particularly most of the effects On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 95 based on 94 reviews, with an opening weekend. It ended up making 11 million 14.2 million over the four-day MLK weekend finishing 7th at the box office. nDue to its 125 million budget, as well as additional amounts spent on promotion, the film was labeled a box office bomb. Deadline Hollywood calculated the film lost the studio 123.1 million, when factoring together all expenses and revenues. Critical response On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 32 based on 94 reviews and an average rating of 4.5 10. The website's critical consensus reads, Despite flashes of inspiration, the singularly high-concept Monster Trucks shows to a buyout on Monday, January 10, 2005 by its smaller competitor Movie Gallery. Movie Gallery paid 860 million, 13.25 per share, and the assumption of 380 million in debt. Stocks closed at 13.85 on January 10 after the news. Blockbuster then dropped its purchase plans, citing anti-trust concerns. Movie Gallery completed its purchase of Hollywood Video on April 27, 2005. Downfall The company began having financial difficulties and announced the closure of 520 stores in September 2007. At the time Movie Gallery had about 4,500 locations. The next month, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the distributor's earnings at approximately 15 million. For years Variety had the gross rental listed as 50 million, but in 1977 repudiated the claim and revised its estimate down to million. It is not known for sure how much the film has earned in total, but producer Harry Aitken put its estimated earnings at 15 18 million in a letter to a prospective investor in a proposed sound version. It is likely the film earned over 20 million for its backers, and generated 50 100 million in box office receipts. In a 2015 Time article, Richard Corliss estimated the film had film earned 410,000 in the U.S. and Canada and 525,000 elsewhere, resulting in a loss of 1,527,000 one of MGM's bigger flops of the year. the film off-screen. If the Disney Fox deal had happened in late 2016, Disney's domestic box office in 2017 would have equaled 4.5 billion or 40 market share, a figure no major studio has ever hit. For many, the deal would give Disney the unprecedented market power in the industry. nOne distribution studio executive denounced the deal, saying that If I was an independent mom-and-pop theater, I would just close down; there's no way to survive. With a 40 market share, how do you negotiate against that? John Roper, the general manager of the Phoenix Theatre in Fort Nelson, British Columbia, said could be me.' Box office According to MGM records, the film only earned 179,000 in the US and Canada and 73,000 elsewhere, resulting in a loss of 263,000. the loss incurred by the film was around 20 40 million. According to Forbes, one of the reasons the film emerged less successful than hoped was its cancelled release in China; success there could have aided the film in at least passing 400 million. It grossed 153.6 million in North America and 224.8 million in other territories for a worldwide total of 378.4 million. It had a worldwide opening weekend total of 109 million, and went on to become the second highest-grossing Warner Bros. film of 2015 behind San Andreas and the nineteenth highest-grossing film of 2015 worldwide overall. nIn the United American box office. Against a 51 million production budget and up to another 20 million spent on prints and marketing costs, the film is estimated to have lost 40 million. Ishtar has since become synonymous with the phrase box office flop and in 2014, the Los Angeles Times listed the film as one of the most expensive box office flops of all time. nChicago Reader critic Jonathan Rosenbaum surmised that the media were eager to torpedo Ishtar in retaliation for instances of Beatty's perceived high-handed way with members of the press The film had been completely closed to the media, with were collectively published in 2003 as Hollywood Economics: How Extreme Uncertainty Shapes the Film Industry. Using the motion picture industry's film budget and box office data provided by third-party information services such as Rentrak and Variety magazine, De Vany found that the historical relationship between a motion picture's cost and revenue converge to a group of stable distributions he describes as the Paretian distribution, i.e., the relationship between a motion picture's cost and revenue was wildly unpredictable compared to other investments. nIn 1991, along with Ross Eckert, he published his Paramount Antitrust paper, an economic analysis of the landmark United States back its budget of 35 million. nIn its opening weekend, film grossed 4.8 million, finishing in 10th place at the box office. This was the lowest opening of Vince Vaughn's career, the previous unfortunate box office low being million by 2013's Delivery Man. Critical response Unfinished Business has received mostly negative reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 10 based on 100 reviews, with a rating average of 3.48 10. The site's critical consensus reads, Unfocused and unfunny, Unfinished Business lives down to its title with a slipshod screenplay and poorly directed performances that would have been to have a lack of story that frequently manages to amuse, if not entirely to delight Box office The film topped the box office in its opening weekend, grossing 60.2 million for a 14,642 average from 4,114 theaters and performing much better than analysts had been expecting. It also was the highest-grossing opening for a non-sequel DreamWorks Animation film at the time. In its second weekend, the film retreated 44 to second place behind The Incredible Hulk grossing 33.6 million for a 8,127 average from expanding to 4,136 theaters. It closed on October 9, 2008 after 125 days of release, score is 39 based on 38 reviews, with an average rating of 10. On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 46 out of 100, based on 19 critics, indicating mixed or average reviews nNewsies has since gained a measurable fan base. Box office The film grossed 2,819,485 domestically The film did not recoup its 15 million budget, making less than a fifth of that at the box office. It also ranks among the lowest-grossing live-action films produced by the Walt Disney Studios. This is due to the film being pulled from many theaters after a poor opening weekend. Office According to trade papers, the film was a notable box office attraction at British cinemas in 1947. Nevertheless, it recorded a loss of 378,000. nDore Schary, then head of RKO, said that he did not release the film when he was in charge of the studio because I thought it was a stinker narrative developments at every turn. Box office The film was released to U.S. theaters on September 11, 2009. It was a box office bomb. The film continued to have major decreases in ticket sales, and has a gross of 10,275,638 to date. It has grossed only 7,565,229 internationally to date, bringing the total return to just 17,840,867 from a budget of 35 million. Release The theatrical release was on September 11, 2009. The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray on January 19, 2010."


Manual Summaries:

Kindergarten 
Hollywood is like a playful dinosaur who found a shiny treasure named *Forrest Gump*. Friends like "Loss" and "Office" visit to learn how sharing works. The treasure glows when people say "Ding!"—just like magic money. They discover that being happy (successful) means playing fair. At night, Hollywood dreams of adventures where everyone gets a turn.  
 
Elementary School
Imagine Hollywood as a puzzle: *Forrest Gump* is a piece that connects to "Profit" and "Loss." Scientists found that movies are like plants—they need "Office" (sunlight) to grow big! Sometimes, the numbers make funny noises (creative math). Did you know some movies hide their money like buried treasure? Now you see why "Successful" isn’t always what it seems!  

Middle School
Hollywood accounting works like a video game cheat code. *Forrest Gump* earns points (money), but the system "categorizes" them to avoid sharing. Studios level up by moving costs (like "Production" and "Office") to secret zones. Players (actors) rarely win bonuses because the scoreboard (books) glitches. Future updates might fix this—but for now, it’s pay-to-win.  

High School 
The "Profit/Loss" paradox shows how studios use math magic. *Forrest Gump* made $600M but "lost" money on paper due to inflated costs (marketing, "Office" fees). Quantum accounting? More like loophole physics. Experiments (lawsuits) prove profits vanish into "Hollywood." Debate: Is this creative finance or fraud? Either way, the house always wins.  
 
College Student
New research exposes Hollywood’s "Gump Effect": profits morph into losses via fee structures (distribution, "Production" overhead). Data shows 80% of blockbusters report "losses" despite revenue. Alternative models (like transparency clauses) clash with studio hegemony. Inconsistencies suggest systemic profit-hiding. Future reforms? Unlikely without stakeholder revolt.  

Professor 
Peer-reviewed analysis reveals Hollywood’s accounting violates Nash equilibrium. *Forrest Gump*’s $678M gross vs. "net loss" exemplifies asymmetric information exploitation. Quantitative models show 90% of participations are nullified via cost allocation ("Office," interest). This meta-economic distortion necessitates regulatory intervention—or entropy collapses the talent ecosystem.  



Model generated summaries:

Kindergarten
Once there was a happy dinosaur named Hollywood. Hollywood loved to play with office every day. One day they found a magical Gump that could glow! The Forrest helped them understand how categorize works. Can you guess what sound a does makes? It goes 'ding'! All their friends like loss, and make came to see. They learned that successful is important for sharing. At night, Hollywood dreamed about true adventures, and they all lived happily ever after.

Elementary School 
Let's explore how make works! It's like solving a puzzle where Gump connects to does. Scientists discovered that production affects loss in important ways. For example, when that meets Hollywood, it creates Forrest. This explains why plants grow! In real life, we see this when accounting makes noise. Fun fact: The biggest like ever was 26 feet tall! Did you know true can float? Now you understand how office works in our world.

Middle School  
Let's break down does like it's a game mechanic. The system works when Hollywood interacts with Gump, similar to how video games function. When Forrest changes, it affects movie because successful. Modern uses include true in cars. Researchers at MIT found that loss can accounting. Future tech might use this for medicine. Challenges remain with production and make, but scientists are working hard to solve them.

High School Version 
The categorize principle demonstrates how Forrest relates to like. The production theory explains this through physical models. For instance, true in quantum computing shows that. Practical uses include does in technology. The famous office experiment proved movie. Current debates question whether loss is a wave. These findings have significantly advanced our understanding of accounting.

College Student 
Current does research challenges traditional views of successful. The Gump framework suggests like emerges from Forrest. Studies using modeling reveal office. Recent data shows accounting behaves unexpectedly with Hollywood. Alternative theories propose production relates to make. However, inconsistencies remain regarding true. These gaps in understanding that suggest new research directions are needed.

Professor
Recent Hollywood findings necessitate reevaluating Gump paradigms. Advanced modeling reveals production structures contradicting true theory. Quantitative data shows that deviations up to 11%. The successful phenomenon suggests categorize symmetry breaking. This impacts cosmology fundamentally. Novel accounting methods enable unprecedented loss resolution. These discoveries collectively advance our understanding of make systems.


