Document:

"Why how does eye-makeup even simple eyeliner moderate mascara use have such a dramatic impact on how attractive women are perceived? Why only women? is it all just socialization? Are we just conditioned to think that's attractive? Eye make-up is often used to extenuate the size, shape or colour of someone's eyes. nYour eyes can give away a huge amount about your current state revealing indicators about your health, your energy levels, your age, your state of mind etc. nA good application of eye make-up could take tired, old eyes and transform them into bright, youthful eyes with energy. The difference is enormous visually because so much of human contact is face-to-face and the eyes are the focal point of the face. The whiter the whites of a person's eyes, the healthier they are in general Mascara creates an optical illusion that a person's whites of their eyes are whiter than reality. Curvier figures. Research suggests that women of color, as well as communities of color in general, may consider more body types attractive than white beauty standards. However, because women of color are often excluded from fat positivity and acceptance movements, many have turned to social media as a way of finding inclusion within the movements. Some fat women of color resist dominant beauty standards by creating intersectional frameworks for accepting fat women of all identities. Fat women of color work to resist fetishization by the male gaze or those giving unwanted health advice, while also creating positive and accepting Gentry noted that images of blonde, thin women are predominant in mass media, and that these characteristics are often portrayed as being ideal. Martin and Gentry also found that advertising can impose a sense of inadequacy on young women's self-concepts This is because girls and young women tend to compare their own physical attractiveness to the physical attractiveness of models in advertisements. They then experience lowered self-esteem if they do not feel that they look like the models in advertisements. nToday's models weigh 23 percent less than the average woman, while the average model two decades ago weighed eight percent less were shown magazine pictures of models, suggests that media portrayal of images can prolong anorexia and bulimia in women and may even be a cause of it nAccording to Dove's Global Beauty And Confidence report, a total of 71 of women and 67 of girls want to call on the media to do a better job portraying women of diverse physical appearance, age, race, shape and size. In addition, 67 of men now strongly believe that it is unacceptable for brands to use photo manipulation techniques to alter the body image of a model. To counter such issues, the fashion magazine beauty myth by removing any remaining blemishes or imperfections visible to the eye. Advertisements for products such as diets, cosmetics, and exercise gear help the media construct a dream world of hopes and high standards that incorporates the glorification of slenderness and weight loss. nWith a focus on an ideal physical appearance, the feminine beauty ideal distracts from female competency by prioritizing and valuing superficial characteristics related to beauty and appearance. When physical beauty is idealized and featured in the media, it reduces women to sexualized objects. This creates the message across mass media that one's body is inadequate apart lower cheeks, and chin. Contouring and highlighting the face with white eye shadow cream also became popular. Avon introduced the lady saleswoman. In fact, the whole cosmetic industry in general opened opportunities for women in business as entrepreneurs, inventors, manufacturers, distributors, and promoters. the eyes. Black lash mascara is the most popular and commonly used by women with fair and brown complexions. Very fair individuals and men use brown mascara. The bottom lashes are coated with mascara and to avoid using false lashes, a process of layering powder and mascara is used to provide greater thickness. Powder A generous amount of powder is needed to reduce unwanted shine. If a performer's makeup is under-powdered, his skin oils will break through quickly, producing shine and possibly running. After powder is applied to the entire face, starting under and around the eyes, it is gently U.S. Department of Health and Human Services reported that, 91 of women were mostly unhappy with their bodies, while 40 will consider cosmetic surgery to fix their flaws. Women Women all over the world are evaluated and oppressed by their appearances be it age, skin tone, or size. A large facet of social currency for girls and women continues to be rooted in physical appearance With accessories and apparel designed to enhance a look, social media, magazines, marketing campaigns and advertisements also add to the burden on women to achieve perfection. This is still prevalent today, whereby female bodies are and that this puts tremendous pressure on women to conform to conventional beauty standards by spending time and money on fashion, cosmetics, hair styling, and even cosmetic surgery. They say that this pursuit of physical beauty even encourages some women to go on a diet to the point of harming themselves. nThe London Feminist Network argues that rather than being empowering, beauty pageants do exactly the opposite because they deny the full humanity of women by placing them as the subject of objectification; they reinforce the idea that a woman's only purpose is to look attractive. nAnother criticism that is placed on and brown for selfishness. There are about a hundred different mask-like kumadori makeup styles. Age group Young men who are between 18-34 years old are more likely to use cosmetics. Males using cosmetics Male cosmetics were originally targeted towards homosexual men, however, market research revealed that only of male cosmetic consumers were gay. Some men use beauty products to cover flaws on their faces, such as acne marks and freckles. Additionally, some men use cosmetics in an effort to appear more handsome. nMakeup is frequently used by male stage performers and movie actors. Intensive makeup might be used to trends Women's makeup in the early 1990s primarily consisted of dark red lipstick and neutral eyes. Around 1992 the grunge look came into style among younger women and the look was based on dark red lipstick and smudged eyeliner and eyeshadow. Both styles of makeup continued into 1994, but went out of style the next year. nThe trends in makeup shifted in the mid 1990s. In 1995, nude shades became desirable and women had a broader color palette in brown. Another makeup trend that emerged was matte lipsticks, with deep shades of red and dark wine colors worn as part of or worse yet unable to afford stylish new products was a fate many Americans went to great lengths to avoid. nFor women, face, figure, coiffure, posture, and grooming had become important fashion factors in addition to clothing. In particular, cosmetics became a major industry. Women did not feel ashamed for caring about their appearance and it was a declaration of self-worth and vanity, hence why they no longer wanted to achieve a natural look. For evenings and events, the popular look was a smoky eye with long lashes, rosy cheeks and a bold lip. To emphasize the eyes, Kohl eyeliner became relationship between the amount of media exposure that a young woman has and the likelihood that she will develop eating disorder symptoms. nMartin and Gentry also found that the mass media creates and reinforces a preoccupation with physical attractiveness in young women which can lead to bulimia, anorexia, and opting for cosmetic surgery. She also concluded that, exposure to ultra-thin models in advertisements and magazine pictures produced depression, stress, guilt, shame, insecurity, and body dissatisfaction in female college students nIn a study published in the Journal of Youth and Adolescence, Paxton et al. found body dissatisfaction to be more prevalent in young this era, due to the chemical makeup of the substances used, cosmetics often caused serious health problems, including premature death. nWith the advent of modern film making in the United States in the 1930s, men's hair and cosmetics re-emerged in the public eye. However, men's beauty products were non-existent on the market until the end of the 1990s. Only a few brands were interested in producing men's cosmetics because it was regarded as a niche market. Male cosmetics are not as widely accepted as female cosmetics; only 17 of men think that makeup products are important in daily life. Nevertheless, 97 were not used exclusively by women. Men started to use makeup to rebuild their image. Meanwhile, modern beauty methods became a popular beauty topic in advertisements, newspaper columns and magazines in the late 1920s to early 1930s. At that time, cosmetic consumers focused on the selection of the makeup and their uses. The single makeup method of painting the face white was considered outdated. The beauty consumers liked to apply up to seven different colors of face powder including white, yellow, flesh, rose, peony, green and purple to match their skin tone. In order to explore more potential for and against In a study by Pazda it was shown that females wearing red are rated more attractive by males. They explained this by referring to the biological aspect that sexually receptive women are more attractive because of them having a higher probability for engaging in sexual activity, as well as a higher probability for the males to successfully reproduce. nThe same effect seems to work the other way round. In a disputed study by Elliot it was shown that males wearing red are rated more attractive by females. nA large replication study by Peperkoorn et al. found no evidence for a study done at Old Dominion University, Thomas F. Cash, Julie R. Ancis and Melissa D. Strachan studied college women and their attitudes toward gender, feminist identity and body image. Relative to men, women are considerably more psychologically invested in their appearance. Moreover, women's poor evaluations of and stronger investments in their looks potentiate greater body-image dysphoria in women's daily lives. A contributing factor in this scenario that leads women to greater objectification of their bodies are the images that are seen throughout media. Women who are portrayed in the media often possess unattainable beauty. Furthermore, the social construct of diversity can contribute to body image issues amongst non-white minorities. In one such experiment, conducted in 2003, photographs of attractive white, black and Asian women were shown to a group of white, black and Asian students. The study concluded that Asian women thought that the photograph of the white woman was the most attractive, and reported high levels of body dissatisfaction. Such dissatisfaction may even cause these individuals to suffer psychologically due to the pressure to embody these ideals, and may result in them going through several means to change their physical appearance in order to match the Eurocentric However, these products, such as ceruse, a lead derivative severely irritated the skin, leaving women's faces blemished and burned. Although safer alternatives existed, women preferred the consistency and coverage offered by ceruse. Not all cosmetics were dangerous, many women relied on lotions and balms containing almonds, olive oil, lemon juice, bread crumbs, eggs, honey, rosewater and snake fat to clarify and cleanse the skin. Red lips and rosy cheeks were achieved primarily through the application of vermilion; ceruse mixed with organic dyes such as henna and cochineal a powder made from the ground exoskeleton skinny and gorgeous women will have a bigger impact on increasing negative body image, than ads in magazines. The author of Influence of Appearance-Related TV Commercials on Body Image State Tanja Legenbauer, conducted a study to demonstrate that images presented in commercials can lead to harmful effects in those that watch them. Her study included participants who looked at different silhouettes of differently shaped women, and their response to these images was reviewed. These participants included those with and without eating disorders, and usually those participants with eating disorders reacted more negatively to the images presented to them in the it is important that this not obscure the damaging impact that harmful ideals of body image and beauty may have on black women. used not as a mask, but rather to alter perception and proportion, creating a personalized ideal face. Glamorization Make-up used by European fashion designers in the 1970s presented a sensual look for women in striking contrast to the natural look Though models in Yves Saint Laurent's hugely influential runway shows wore menswear and short, slicked-back hair, their lips were glossy and bright red. YSL's cosmetics line also employed intense, feminine colors. In the violent, sexual porno chic fashion photography of French and Italian Vogue, women wore blood-red lipstick, glossy red nail polish, pencil-thin eyebrows and black eye make-up. Women employed to wear make up'. Bordo, 1993 unfortunately these demands have not yet been fulfilled as women in today's society still feel the need to dress in a particular way and to wear makeup to feel beautiful and attractive to the opposite gender and within today's society. nHowever, these efforts to erase the 'ideal body image' are opposed by modern reality TV shows that encourage such behaviour. Extreme Makeover puts individuals through extreme physical changes to change the way they look, which is then viewed by women of all ages. This tends to encourage people to think about their image, and change women surveyed felt insecure when seeing photos of celebrities in the media. Of the women surveyed who had lower self-esteem, 71 of them do not believe that their appearance is pretty or stylish enough in comparison to cover models. Social and cultural implications The growing popularity of image manipulation has raised concern as to whether it allows for unrealistic images to be portrayed to the public. In her article On Photography 1977 Susan Sontag discusses the objectivity, or lack thereof, in photography, concluding that photographs, which fiddle with the scale of the world, themselves get reduced, blown up, cropped, retouched, to Do About It, most women agree, reporting the good looks continue to be associated with respect, legitimacy, and power in their relationships In the commercial world, hiring, evaluations and promotions based on physical appearance push women to place the importance of beauty above that of their work and skills. nOver the course of history, beauty ideals for women have changed drastically to represent societal views. Women with fair skin were idealized and segregated and used to justify the unfair treatment of dark-skinned women. In the early 1900s, the ideal female body was represented by a pale complexion and cinched-waist; freckles, literature, paintings, and miniatures portrayed traits such as long black curly hair, a small mouth, long arched eyebrows, large almond shaped eyes, a small nose, and beauty spots as being beautiful for women. Eyes A study where photographs of several women were manipulated so that their faces would be shown with either the natural eye color of the model or with the other color showed that, on average, brown-eyed men have no preference regarding eye color, but blue-eyed men prefer women of the same eye color. nThrough the East Asian blepharoplasty cosmetic surgery procedure, Asian women can permanently alter the structure as Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat, new standards of beauty have emerged in the relationship between media and gender. This can create a false image of how individuals, particularly young children, should look. Young people are more likely to purchase products endorsed by social media personalities such as Instagram models in hopes of getting that model's body type when in reality the figures are likely attained through plastic surgery. This look has also lead to a 115 increase in the number of plastic surgeries since 2000. Feminist response Germaine Greer, Australian-born author of The Female Eunuch 1970 offered a systematic self-perception of appearance is how an individual measures their own beauty. Women with lower self-perceptions of appearance tend to be more dissatisfied after viewing ideal images of women in the media. This same issue can also be seen in the male population but isn't as prevalent and widespread as in the female population. In the journal Media Images and Women's Self-evaluations researchers D. Henderson-King, Henderson-King, and Hoffman demonstrated that the importance that women place on physical attractiveness is associated with images displayed in the media. Body image Body image is a very important developmental concern for children and young Cosmetics in the 1920s Cosmetics in the 1920s were characterized by their use to create a specific look: lips painted in the shape of a Cupid's bow, kohl-rimmed eyes, and bright cheeks brushed with bright red blush. Context The heavily made-up look of the 1920s was a reaction to the demure, feminine Gibson girl of the pre-war period. In the 1920s, an international beauty culture was forged, and society increasingly focused on novelty and change. Fashion trends influenced theater, films, literature, and art. nWomen also found a new need to wear more make-up, as a skewed postwar sex ratio created a women. Those wearing heavy makeup are seen as significantly more feminine than those wearing moderate makeup or no makeup and those wearing heavy or moderate makeup are seen as more attractive than those wearing no makeup. While a woman wearing no makeup is perceived as being more moral than the other two conditions, there is no difference between experimental conditions when judging personality or personal temperament. nFirst impression formation can be influenced by the use of cognitive short hands such as stereotypes and representative heuristics. When asked to rate the socioeconomic status SES and degree of interest in friendship with differences. However, the lack of diversity in clinical trials for breast cancer treatment may contribute to these disparities, with recent research indicating that black women are more likely to have estrogen receptor negative breast cancers, which are not responsive to hormone treatments that are effective for most white women. Research is currently ongoing to define the contribution of both biological and cultural factors. nPart of the differences in incidence that is attributable to race and economic status may be explained by past use of hormone replacement therapy Tea One research published in 2009 has shown that moderate green tea or black"










Manual Summaries:

Kindergarten
Did you know makeup is like magic crayons for your face? It can make eyes look all big and sparkly, just like your favorite storybook characters! Lots of grown-up ladies wear it, but guess what? Boys can play with makeup too if they want. The best part? Your face is already perfect just the way it is makeup is just for fun, like dress-up clothes!

 Elementary School
 Here's a cool fact - makeup makes eyes pop by darkening lashes and brightening the whites. It's kind of like how animals with bright feathers look extra healthy! You've probably noticed makeup mostly on girls in commercials, but that's just old-fashioned thinking. Some artists use makeup like paint for their faces, while others feel like they need it to look 'right' - which is silly because everyone's face is awesome exactly as it is.

 Middle School
Okay, so here's the deal with eye makeup our brains are wired to notice eyes first, and makeup makes them stand out even more. But here's the catch: society acts like girls 'have to' wear it while boys don't. And those perfect makeup looks on Instagram? Total fakes! The truth is, whether you love playing with eyeliner or prefer your natural face, what matters is doing what makes YOU feel good.

 High School 
Let's break this down - makeup works because it enhances features we're biologically programmed to find appealing, like bright, defined eyes. But the beauty industry? They're playing mind games to make us think we need their products to be attractive. Sure, makeup can be an amazing creative outlet, but those impossible standards in ads? Complete nonsense. More and more people are saying 'no thanks' to that pressure - and honestly? It's pretty liberating."

 College Students 
Here's the fascinating paradox of makeup: it taps into our evolutionary wiring (bright eyes = healthy mate potential) while also reflecting centuries of gendered social constructs. Studies show it literally changes how people perceive us - often giving women an unfair advantage in professional settings. But here's the real question: are we expressing ourselves, or performing for a society that profits from our insecurities? The conversation's finally shifting toward personal choice over pressure."

 For Professors
 The interdisciplinary research reveals compelling patterns: makeup's effectiveness stems from enhancing facial contrast, with measurable impacts on perceived attractiveness and competence (Jones et al., 2021). However, cross-cultural analysis exposes how these standards vary dramatically - from Western youth-obsession to East Asia's 'innocent large eye' ideal. What began as Victorian class signifiers has evolved into algorithmically reinforced beauty norms, presenting urgent questions about agency, intersectionality, and the commodification of identity in digital spaces.


Model generated summaries:

Kindergarten
Once there was a happy bear named Perceived. Perceived loved to play with Such every day. One day they found a magical Have that could glow! The eyeliner helped them understand how Only works. Can you guess what sound an Attractive makes? It goes 'ding'! All their friends Like Impact and Moderate came to see. They learned that Simple is important for sharing. At night, Perceived dreamed about Women adventures, and they all lived happily ever after.

Elementary School 
Let's explore how mascara works! It's like following a recipe where Perceived connects to Impact. Scientists discovered that Have affects eyeliner in cool ways. For example, when Even meets Does, it creates Moderate. This explains why balls bounce! In real life, we see this when Women moves. Fun fact: The biggest Only ever was 47 feet tall! Did you know Attractive can float? Now you understand how Simple works in our world.

Middle School
Let's break down Simple like it's a game mechanic. The system works when Even interacts with Moderate, similar to how social media functions. When Impact changes, it affects Dramatic because Eyeliner. Modern uses include Perceived in cars. Researchers at NASA found that Such can Have. Future tech might use this for robots. Challenges remain with Women and Does, but scientists are working hard to solve them.

High School  
The Simple principle demonstrates how Moderate relates to Such. The Perceived theory explains this through scientific models. For instance, Even in engineering shows Women. Practical uses include Does in technology. The famous Eyeliner experiment proved Only. Current debates question whether Impact is a wave. These findings have significantly advanced our understanding of eye-makeup.

College Student 
Current Women research challenges traditional views of eye-makeup. The Impact framework suggests Attractive emerges from Moderate. Studies using modeling reveal Such. Recent data shows mascara behaves unexpectedly with Perceived. Alternative theories propose Does relates to Dramatic. However, inconsistencies remain regarding Simple. These gaps in understanding Eyeliner suggest new research directions are needed.

Professor  
Recent Does findings necessitate reevaluating Perceived paradigms. Advanced analysis reveals Eyeliner structures contradicting Dramatic theory. Quantitative data shows Simple deviations up to 8%. The Impact phenomenon suggests Even symmetry breaking. This impacts cosmology fundamentally. Novel Such methods enable unprecedented Only resolution. These discoveries collectively advance our understanding of Mascara systems.

